---
layout: default
title: Addresses
permalink: /addresses/
nav_order: 181
indent: true
---

# Addresses

**Status: Early design exploration**

Users need a way to view and manage bitcoin addresses that are generated by their wallet. 

### Single-use addresses (on-chain)

Historically users had to deal with two types of addresses:

- **Receive addresses**: Users share a receive address with the person they would like to receive a payment from. For privacy reasons it is a best practice to generate a fresh receive address for each payment.  
- **Change addresses** are reserved for receiving the change output from spending transactions. Many wallet applications do not expose change addresses to their users at all. This implies that a significant amount of people are not familiar with the concept.

{% include picture.html
	image = "/assets/images/settings/addresses-receive.png"
	retina = "/assets/images/settings/addresses-receive@2x.png"
	big = "/assets/images/settings/addresses-receive-big.png"
	alt-text = "Screens with a list of receive addresses"
	width = 800
	height = 366
%}

### Reusable addresses (off-chain)

Through the implementation of the [Silent Payments](https://bitcoinops.org/en/topics/silent-payments/) protocol, which was introduced with [BIP-352](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0352.mediawiki), the task of managing one's own addresses has become more relevant. 

A silent payment address is a static offchain address that is used by the sender to derive a fresh bitcoin address for each payment. Users can create sub-addresses according to their personal needs, e.g. for collecting donations, invoicing clients or their online store.

{% include picture.html
	image = "/assets/images/settings/addresses-reusable.png"
	retina = "/assets/images/settings/addresses-reusable@2x.png"
	big = "/assets/images/settings/addresses-reusable-big.png"
	alt-text = "Screens with a list of reusable addresses"
	width = 800
	height = 366
%}


